Add docs for LCN frontend (#35392)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/lcn.markdown

![Integration configuration](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_integration_configuration.png)

## Configuration panel

From the LCN Configuration Panel, you can configure your LCN modules, groups, and entities within Home Assistant.

![LCN Configuration Panel](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_device_page.png)

### Configuring devices

You can add and remove modules and groups directly from the configuration panel. Once added, they will appear in Home Assistant as devices, which can be used to trigger [specific actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/lcn/#actions) within scripts or automations. For examples, refer to the [Performing actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/scripts/perform-actions/) page.

The **Modules / Groups** tab provides an overview of your configured LCN modules and groups, showing their name, ID, and segment ID. The LCN Configuration Panel attempts to derive names from the LCN modules; if a module has no name or is part of a group, a standard name is assigned.

#### Scanning modules

> To initiate a scan for LCN modules on the bus, click the three vertical dots in the upper right corner and select **Scan Modules**. This process polls each module for its name and serial number. When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initiate a scan for LCN modules on the bus, in the top-right corner, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu and select **Scan Modules**.
- **Result**: This process polls each module for its name and serial number. 
- When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.
```

Scanning modules may take several seconds. The pop-up dialog will close automatically once the process is complete.

#### Adding devices

If module scanning fails or a module is unavailable on the bus, you can manually add it. Groups can also be created manually.

> To add a module or group manually, click the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.
```

![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)

> Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. Click **Create** to add the new device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 
3. To add the new device, select **Create**.
```

#### Deleting devices

> To delete a device, click the trash can icon next to it. This will remove the device from the device list and Home Assistant, including any associated entities.
> 
> You can also delete multiple devices at once by enabling selection mode, selecting the desired entries, and clicking the **Delete Selected** button in the upper right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This will remove the device from the device list and from Home Assistant, including any associated entities.

To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then select the **Delete Selected** button in the upper right.
```

### Configuring entities

> Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. To view entities for a specific device (module or group), click the device entry in the **Modules / Groups** tab. This will open the Entities tab, filtering entities to show only those for the selected device. You can also apply custom filters by enabling the filter option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. 

- To view entities for a specific device (module or group), select the device entry in the **Modules / Groups** tab. This opens the **Entities** tab, filtering entities to show only those for the selected device. 
- To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.
```

![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

#### Adding entities

> To create a new entity, click the **Create Entity** button, which opens the following dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new entity, select the **Create Entity** button, which opens the following dialog.
```

![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)

Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. (If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.)

Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name. You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.

> Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. Enter the required information and click **Create** to add the entity to the list and Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .
```

#### Deleting entities

> To delete an entity, click the trash can icon next to it. This will remove the entity from the list and Home Assistant. To delete multiple entities, enable selection mode, select the desired entries, and click **Delete Selected** in the upper right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an entity, select the trash can icon next to it. This will remove the entity from the list and from Home Assistant. To delete multiple entities, enable selection mode, select the desired entries, and select **Delete Selected** in the upper right.
```

Once the integration is added to Home Assistant, you can access the `lcn` configuration panel by selecting the **Configure** button next to the respective integration entry on the [LCN integration page](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/integration/?domain=lcn).

> The detailed documentation for the LCN frontend panel can be found [here](https://alengwenus.github.io/lcn-frontend/).

Reviewer 2: We actually should move that over to be included in this documentation. It should not be needed for an Home Assistant end-user to go to external documentation to learn how to use Home Assistant.

../Frenck

1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.

  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)

2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 
3. To add the new device, select **Create**.

#### Deleting devices

To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This will remove the device from the device list and from Home Assistant, including any associated entities.

To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then, in the top-right corner, select  **Delete Selected**.

### Configuring entities

Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. 

- To view entities for a specific device (module or group), select the device entry in the **Modules / Groups** tab. This opens the **Entities** tab, filtering entities to show only those for the selected device. 
- To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.

  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

#### Adding entities

> To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.
> 
> ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)
> 
> Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. (If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.)
> 
> Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name. You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.
> 
> Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.

  ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)

2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 
  - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.
3. Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name.
  - You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.
4. Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .
```

#### Deleting entities

> To delete an entity, select the trash can icon next to it. This will remove the entity from the list and from Home Assistant. To delete multiple entities, enable selection mode, select the desired entries, and select **Delete Selected** in the upper right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a sinlge entity, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This removes the entity from the list and from Home Assistant. 

To delete multiple entities, enable selection mode, select the desired entries, and select **Delete Selected** in the upper right.
```

![LCN Configuration Panel](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_device_page.png)

### Configuring devices

You can add and remove modules and groups directly from the configuration panel. Once added, they will appear in Home Assistant as devices, which can be used to trigger [specific actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/lcn/#actions) within scripts or automations. For examples, refer to the [Performing actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/scripts/perform-actions/) page.

The **Modules / Groups** tab provides an overview of your configured LCN modules and groups, showing their name, ID, and segment ID. The LCN Configuration Panel attempts to derive names from the LCN modules; if a module has no name or is part of a group, a standard name is assigned.

#### Scanning modules

To initiate a scan for LCN modules on the bus, in the top-right corner, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu and select **Scan Modules**.
- **Result**: This process polls each module for its name and serial number. 
- When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.

> Scanning modules may take several seconds. The pop-up dialog will close automatically once the process is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.
- Scanning modules may take several seconds. The pop-up dialog will close automatically once the process is complete.
```

#### Adding devices

If module scanning fails or a module is unavailable on the bus, you can manually add it. Groups can also be created manually.

1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.

> ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)
```

2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 
3. To add the new device, select **Create**.

#### Deleting devices

To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This will remove the device from the device list and from Home Assistant, including any associated entities.

> To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then select the **Delete Selected** button in the upper right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then, in the top-right corner, select  **Delete Selected**.
```

### Configuring entities

Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. 

- To view entities for a specific device (module or group), select the device entry in the **Modules / Groups** tab. This opens the **Entities** tab, filtering entities to show only those for the selected device. 
- To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.

> ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)
```

#### Adding entities

> To create a new entity, select the **Create Entity** button, which opens the following dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.
```

- To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.

  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

#### Adding entities

1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.

  ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)

2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 
  - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.
3. Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name.
  - You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.
4. Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .

#### Deleting entities

To delete a sinlge entity, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This removes the entity from the list and from Home Assistant. 

To delete multiple entities, enable selection mode, select the desired entries, and select **Delete Selected** in the upper right.

#### Displaying entity properties

> Once an entity is created, you can view and configure its properties by clicking on it in the entity list. This opens the Home Assistant dialog for entity properties, allowing you to configure the entity as you would from the general Home Assistant entity configuration panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once an entity is created, you can view and configure its properties. 

Select the entity in the entity list. 
  - This opens the Home Assistant dialog for entity properties, allowing you to configure the entity as you would from the general Home Assistant entity configuration panel.
```

The **Modules / Groups** tab provides an overview of your configured LCN modules and groups, showing their name, ID, and segment ID. The LCN Configuration Panel attempts to derive names from the LCN modules; if a module has no name or is part of a group, a standard name is assigned.

#### Scanning modules

To initiate a scan for LCN modules on the bus, in the top-right corner, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu and select **Scan Modules**.
- **Result**: This process polls each module for its name and serial number. 
- When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.
- Scanning modules may take several seconds. The pop-up dialog will close automatically once the process is complete.

#### Adding devices

If module scanning fails or a module is unavailable on the bus, you can manually add it. Groups can also be created manually.

1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.

    ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)
2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 

> 3. To add the new device, select **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button.
2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 

    ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)
3. To add the new device, select **Create**.
```

#### Deleting devices

To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This will remove the device from the device list and from Home Assistant, including any associated entities.

To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then, in the top-right corner, select  **Delete Selected**.

### Configuring entities

Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. 

> - To view entities for a specific device (module or group), select the device entry in the **Modules / Groups** tab. This opens the **Entities** tab, filtering entities to show only those for the selected device. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view entities for a specific device (module or group), in the **Modules / Groups** tab, select the device entry.
  - **Result**: The **Entities** tab opens, showing entities of the selected device. 
```

- To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.

  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

#### Adding entities

> 1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.
> 
>     ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)
> 2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 
>     - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**.
2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 
    - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.

      ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)
```

Once the integration is added to Home Assistant, you can access the `lcn` configuration panel by selecting the **Configure** button next to the respective integration entry on the [LCN integration page](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/integration/?domain=lcn).

![Integration configuration](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_integration_configuration.png)

## Configuration panel

From the LCN Configuration Panel, you can configure your LCN modules, groups, and entities within Home Assistant.

![LCN Configuration Panel](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_device_page.png)

### Configuring devices

> You can add and remove modules and groups directly from the configuration panel. Once added, they will appear in Home Assistant as devices, which can be used to trigger [specific actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/lcn/#actions) within scripts or automations. For examples, refer to the [Performing actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/scripts/perform-actions/) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add and remove modules and groups directly from the configuration panel. Once added, they will appear in Home Assistant as devices, which can be used to trigger [specific actions](#actions) within scripts or automations. For examples, refer to the [Performing actions](/docs/scripts/perform-actions/) page.
```

The **Modules / Groups** tab provides an overview of your configured LCN modules and groups, showing their name, ID, and segment ID. The LCN Configuration Panel attempts to derive names from the LCN modules; if a module has no name or is part of a group, a standard name is assigned.

#### Scanning modules

To initiate a scan for LCN modules on the bus, in the top-right corner, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu and select **Scan Modules**.

> - **Result**: This process polls each module for its name and serial number. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Result**: This process polls each module for its name and serial number.
```

- When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.
- Scanning modules may take several seconds. The pop-up dialog will close automatically once the process is complete.

#### Adding devices

If module scanning fails or a module is unavailable on the bus, you can manually add it. Groups can also be created manually.

1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button.

> 2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`.
```

    ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)
3. To add the new device, select **Create**.

#### Deleting devices

> To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it.
```

- **Result**: This will remove the device from the device list and from Home Assistant, including any associated entities.

To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then, in the top-right corner, select  **Delete Selected**.

### Configuring entities

Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. 

To view entities for a specific device (module or group), in the **Modules / Groups** tab, select the device entry.
  - **Result**: The **Entities** tab opens, showing entities of the selected device. 

> - To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.
```

  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

#### Adding entities

1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**.

> 2. From the dropdown menu, select the module or group for which to create the entity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the dropdown menu, select the module or group for which to create the entity.
```

> 2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the dropdown menu, select the module or group for which to create the entity. 
```

    - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.

      ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)
3. Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name.
    - You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.
4. Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .

#### Deleting entities

> To delete a sinlge entity, select the trash can icon next to it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a single entity, select the trash can icon next to it. 
```

> To delete a single entity, select the trash can icon next to it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a single entity, select the trash can icon next to it.
```

- **Result**: This removes the entity from the list and from Home Assistant. 

To delete multiple entities, enable selection mode, select the desired entries, and select **Delete Selected** in the upper right.

#### Displaying entity properties

Once an entity is created, you can view and configure its properties. 

> Select the entity in the entity list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the entity in the entity list.
```

### Configuring devices

You can add and remove modules and groups directly from the configuration panel. Once added, they will appear in Home Assistant as devices, which can be used to trigger [specific actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/lcn/#actions) within scripts or automations. For examples, refer to the [Performing actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/scripts/perform-actions/) page.

The **Modules / Groups** tab provides an overview of your configured LCN modules and groups, showing their name, ID, and segment ID. The LCN Configuration Panel attempts to derive names from the LCN modules; if a module has no name or is part of a group, a standard name is assigned.

#### Scanning modules

To initiate a scan for LCN modules on the bus, in the top-right corner, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu and select **Scan Modules**.
- **Result**: This process polls each module for its name and serial number. 
- When all module responses have been received, they will be listed in the device list.
- Scanning modules may take several seconds. The pop-up dialog will close automatically once the process is complete.

#### Adding devices

> If module scanning fails or a module is unavailable on the bus, you can manually add it. Groups can also be created manually.
> 
> 1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.
> 
>   ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)
> 
> 2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 
> 3. To add the new device, select **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If module scanning fails or a module is unavailable on the bus, you can manually add it. Groups can also be created manually.

1. To add a module or group manually, select the **Create Module/Group** button to open the dialog.

    ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_device.png)
2. Select whether you want to add a module or group and enter the desired `segment id` and module/group `id`. 
3. To add the new device, select **Create**.
```

#### Deleting devices

To delete a single device, select the trash can icon next to it. 
- **Result**: This will remove the device from the device list and from Home Assistant, including any associated entities.

To delete multiple devices at once, enable selection mode.  Select the desired entries, then, in the top-right corner, select  **Delete Selected**.

### Configuring entities

Entities configured for all devices are listed on the **Entities** tab. 

- To view entities for a specific device (module or group), select the device entry in the **Modules / Groups** tab. This opens the **Entities** tab, filtering entities to show only those for the selected device. 
- To apply custom filters, enable the filter option.

  ![Create module/group dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_entities_page.png)

#### Adding entities

> 1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.
> 
>   ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)
> 
> 2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 
>   - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.
> 3. Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name.
>   - You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.
> 4. Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To create a new entity, select **Create Entity**, which opens the following dialog.

    ![Create entity dialog](/images/integrations/lcn/lcn_create_entity.png)
2. Select the module or group for which to create the entity from the dropdown menu. 
    - If a single module or group filter is applied, it will be pre-selected.
3. Choose the domain (platform) for the entity and enter a name.
    - You can change this name later within the Home Assistant entity settings.
4. Depending on the selected domain, additional options will be shown. To add the entity to the list and to Home Assistant, enter the required information and select **Create** .
```
